---
inFeed: true
description: >-
  Building on the success of marketplaces like Apple Appstore, AirBNB and
  similar services; Insurance simplified aims to build a marketplace for its
  members to acquire and manage their insurance in the bests possible way.
dateModified: '2017-06-16T13:27:49.487Z'
datePublished: '2017-06-16T13:27:49.633Z'
title: About Us
author: []
publisher: {}
via: {}
sourcePath: _posts/2017-06-16-about-us.md
starred: false
datePublishedOriginal: '2017-06-16T13:27:21.686Z'
_type: Blurb

---
## **About Us**

Building on the success of marketplaces like Apple Appstore, AirBNB and similar services; Insurance simplified aims to build a marketplace for its members to acquire and manage their insurance in the bests possible way.

In general, the insurance industry relies on old traditions and has a rather conservative view on the underlying element of risk. In recent years, several new actors have emerged with a more innovative approach to insurance than the traditional insurers. E.g. crowdfunded home insurance, needs-based micro casualty insurance, pay-as-you-drive auto insurance etc. Given big data analytics and IoT capabilities, there are no longer any technical obstacles to further individualize insurance coverage. 

With an increasing number of insurance alternatives to choose from, e.g. overlapping insurance cover packaging and individualized insurance coverage, it becomes harder to understand what alternatives are relevant, suitable and worth paying for.  An insurance policy at its core is a legally binding contract between a policy holder and an insurer that specifies the insurer's promise to compensate the policy holder in the event of a covered loss. As such, an insurance policy comes with a substantial amount of terms and conditions that defines the legal constraints of the actual insurance coverage. 

These terms and conditions are in a language that primarily serves the insurance companies and most people cannot comprehend all the legal "if/then/else" statements printed on 30-80 pages in font size 6\. People rarely discuss or compare the actual content of insurance policies except for the annual premium which is the only thing that is really tangible.

To summarize, property and casualty insurance is complex and finding the proper insurance coverage according to your individual, specific needs is a challenge that is too hard, tedious and boring for most people.